How to install an external VFS script
=====================================

Related to extfs installation there are two major versions of Midnight
Commander. Older versions before 4.7.something use extfs.ini
configuration file. Newer versions simply allow to drop a VFS script to
~/.mc/extfs.d directory. One can distinguish these versions by looking
up the file extfs.ini; run the following command from the command line:

locate -b \\extfs.ini

(I use GNU locate conventions; adapt the command line to your system;
the simplest variant is just "locate extfs.ini".)

Usual places for extfs.ini are /etc/mc/extfs/extfs.ini,
/usr/lib/mc/extfs/extfs.ini, /usr/share/mc/extfs/extfs.ini or
/usr/local/share/mc/extfs/extfs.ini.

Older versions - extfs.ini
--------------------------

On the system where there is a file extfs.ini a VFS script has to be
installed the following way. Put the script into the system extfs
directory - /usr/share/mc/extfs/ or /usr/local/share/mc/extfs/. Edit
extfs.ini - add a line naming the script; for example, if one's
installing xml VFS one has to do something like

cd /etc/mc/extfs
echo xml >>extfs.ini

To use the installed VFS one also has to edit ~/.mc/mc.ext to assign the
VFS to file extension(s) or type(s). For example to assign xml VFS to
*.xml files (ignore case) and to XML file type add the following to
mc.ext:

regex/\.([xX][mM][lL])$
    Open=%cd %p#xml

type/^XML *(1\.0 *)?document text
    Open=%cd %p#xml

To enable file types add or change the following configuration option in
ini file:

use_file_to_guess_type=1

This has to be done using text editor - mc doesn't allow editing the
option in its configuration editor.

Newer versions ~/.mc/extfs.d
----------------------------

For newer versions just drop a VFS script to ~/.mc/extfs.d or
~/.local/share/mc/extfs.d/ directory (verify directory by running "mc -F").
Edit mc.ext; the syntax is slightly different:

regex/\.([xX][mM][lL])$
    Include=xml

type/^XML *(1\.0 *)?document text
    Include=xml

include/xml
    Open=%cd %p/xml://
